#1 competitor: SuperCook - Recipe Generator (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.supercook.app)
SuperCook shares recipes from other websites and people to upload recipes. The reliability of those recipes is skeptical, especially those that do not have any reviews because the user would not know who the recipe provider is. Therefore, it inspires us to include some recipes provided by professional chefs along with recipes uploaded by users.   
Moreover, what makes our app different from SuperCook app is that users can shop groceries within the app if they wish to buy missing ingredients, which SuperCook app cannot provide that convenience for its users. Additionally, if users do not want to be shopping, our recipe generator will offer substitute suggestions for the items they are missing. Finally, creativity is unlimited as chefs can view what people are cooking in different locations, what food photos they post in which location or simply read some useful stories of keeping fridge organized.
#2 Whisk: Recipes & Meal Planner (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.foodient.whisk)
Whisk is featured in having healthy dining plans and having conversations with others to share receipts in the app. Having a healthy lifestyle is a hot topic nowadays so when people look for recipes, they would like to have some healthy options. The healthy dining plan feature makes this app favorable.  Therefore, allowing users to filter recipes by calorie content and including it in the recipe cards would aid people to eat healthier. On the other hand, having conversations with friends and family makes the app interactive and exciting since people would love to share their experiences and get to know others’ stories. To achieve the same goal, Instagram story feature is referred. Through the community, users could share recipes that they have tried with comments and their own results. Then, users could swape right or left to get to the next friend’s post. Therefore, users not only get the recipes, but also get to know more about their friends.
#3 Empty my fridge - Plant Jammer ( https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.plantjammer.plantjammer)
Empty my fridge is featured in a similar idea that provides recipes according to the food input. Unfortunately. it got much fewer downloads (500K+), than Whisk (1M+) and SuperCook (1M+). It may be caused by overly simplified functionalities.  Some reviews mentioned that the app could not filter by type of dish, it lacked updated recipes and recipe-saving function, and many recipes were behind a paywall. Therefore, it inspired us to add more features to attract people and design the app from the users’ point of view are needed. It is believed that the inclusion of a community feature for sharing recipes and experiences with others and cooking 101 for beginners could make the app interesting and take people with various cooking experiences into consideration. 
